record there we
go that's something that we forgot to do
last time and so what I'll do is I'll
read the uh the public notice and then
after that we'll ask Christine to give
the same little brief that uh you
provided us last
time sounds good so the town of vover
Planning and Zoning commission is
holding a public hearing to afford
public an opport to comment ask
questions regarding an application from
the town of vover for a special permit
to undertake a variety of site
improvements at Veterans Park located at
the juncture of Riverside Drive in Long
Hill
Road more particularly the improvements
include construction of three pickle
ball courts gazebo two playscapes and
various Associated site
improvements the proposed use
specifically requires a special permit
in accordance with the section 10 of the
Andover zoning regulations which are the
town's flood prone
District so uh that's what we're here to
discuss and Christine if you want to uh
brief us on the application go ahead
sure good afternoon everyone or good
evening everyone my name is Christine
Randazzo I am part of the Andover
veterans uh committee we've been working
on the project for a little over over a
year now um this project was um awarded
by Grant from the office of policy of
management through the 2023 smalltown
economic assistance program um with this
grant we're so fortunate to have
received uh we we we are proposing to
install three pickle ball courts two
playscapes one which would cover ages 2
through five and the other one would be
5 through 12 um an Associated play items
such as swing sets Spinners um a
pavilion with a concrete floor we are
extending some drainage across the
street towards the softball fields and
redoing uh or setting up a parking area
an official parking area for this
project uh some of the things that have
gone through since our last public
hearing um
for example um I'd like to talk about
the drainage for the project uh the site
currently uh runs
alongside um hop River the water
currently drains by Overland flow from
about the center line of Riverside Drive
towards the river um there's very flat
conditions in this area um if you can
visualize the soccer fields um there's
the soccer fields then there's a burm
and then there's this other low-lying
area that used to be the town Gravel Pit
um this is where we are doing a lot of
our Construction in this low-lying area
that used to be the Gravel Pit uh as
well as on the BM uh the low Ling area
does experience flooding being adjacent
to the hop River uh it does not
experience flow but water can rise
during severe events um the burm area
does not experience any standing water
fortunately so with that in mind and
laying out the project we put the
playgrounds uh on the burm as well as
well as uh the peripherals for the
children's play areas and the
Pavilion um the pickle ball courts will
be in the low-lying area they will
experience
flooding um the area in the low Ling
area is exceptionally flat so getting
the the it also feeds uh an existing
Wetlands which is directly behind the
pickle ball court
area um we do have um some sidewalks
that go from the parking area on each
side of the pickle ball court so you'll
be able to access it from the parking
area in two different
directions um the parking the parking
area initially had a complete paved
surface we have since changed that to a
gravel surface uh except for the two
handicap at parking spots uh we did that
for a number of reasons um
in keeping in in trying to do uh pave
surface um it required a treatment of
runoff from from the paved area from the
back of the curbing out to the west side
of the property and between the
construction costs associated with
Paving the area the drainage the piping
the clearing in the woods because that
area as well is exceptionally flat so to
get the water to grade the right way to
the level spreader and the sizing of the
level level spreader it created an
expense larger than we really wanted the
grant is a $500,000 Grant um the town is
kicking in labor in kind of 150,000 so
our our resources are kind of limited so
we thought by um reverting back and
keeping the parking area a a stone
parking area that would uh that is about
um 4 in of processed on 8 in of like a
bank run type gravel so there's like a
12in depth there of a perious uh surf uh
surface that we would maintain existing
drainage conditions so existing drainage
conditions means that the water travels
from the roadway towards this low-lying
area and then eventually makes its way
to the wetlands
um the water would be continuing to do
that today uh with the the way that
we've um proposed the parking area um
the water would travel through the
parking area seep in you know make its
way down the hill right behind the
pickle ball area we do have a
um um a uh an underd drain I'm Excuse me
an underd drain that would be collecting
all the surface and groundwater that was
running through the slope intercept it
so it doesn't roll right onto the pickle
ball quarts and it would be channeled
around the pickle ball quarts to be
posited right back into the wetlands our
goal is to keep the water where it's
currently going today because we do have
a viable Wetlands directly behind our
project area and we don't want to dry it
out
um we also are constructing um just a
using a grid type system um as an access
way in and around the playscape area
just in case private uh Public Works
needs to be able to get around the play
area to the hiking trails that are down
by the river if any um equipment needs
to get down that way um I think that
about covers everything we have we we
are enclosing the area with the silt
fence it's a continuous loop per the
request of Hank gruner uh with j- hook
at each end uh just to intercept any uh
box turtles that may travel up and
around the site so they don't find their
way into the construction
area um we are also proposing Lighting
in the pickle ball court area the
parking area and the walkways um we did
receive a lighting plan a revised
lighting plan um with the changes that
were recommended by the commission and
we just received it today we did upload
it we know it short notice but we do
have it up there for your
viewing um I think that's all I
have okay thanks Christine and uh before
we head off and and take a look at the
drawings uh you know I I recognize
there's an awful lot of heroic good work
that went into getting us all this stuff
today as you noted uh a little late for
the Tak a look at the new lighting plan
the the thing that you when we talk
about
drainage and you addressed we spent a
lot of time last
time talking about uh you know the
drainage for adding impervious service
greater than 2,000 square feet and we
talked about how that uh little pit full
of uh rip wrap or whatever that came off
the parking area was going to compensate
for that and uh and I understand there
may have been some confusion
as to whether or not that that little
box of uh Stone was going to compensate
for the entire site or just the parking
area but
uh I'm still interested in in the
mitigation for that extra water that
would run off because we've now put you
know some
significant um impervious surface down
there with the with four pickle ball
quarts if you will three three in the
impervious service to support a fourth
or or something else so that's uh that's
still a sticking point I'd like to point
out as we start to go through it and if
there is uh stuff that we can highlight
as we go through on that that would be
great so um I know Eric last time you
were the guy who walked us through the
drawings uh Christine were you gonna do
that tonight or is z gonna do that how
uh I well I was gonna ask if you wanted
Joe to answer the question with regards
to the water
first um and
then happy to uh happy to listen there
yep go ahead
Joe okay y
now um yeah the um as Christin said
decision was
to have bless impact with the imper the
impervious gravel surface on the parking
area to Pavement as far as
the um the uh HCK ball carts down below
um we discussed last time in terms of of
Detention of water uh Peaks Peak flows
we're in an area very close to the hop
river that has a very longer peak time
for the peak flow so that the runoff
from this particular area the paave
surface will be out and gone before the
peak so there will be no impact to the
increased U increased flow off the
site we're so close to the to the river
itself um that it's it's not
something worry about get close uh water
quality uh the the the area is a
finished pav surface that is not going
to be used for vehicles there will be no
sand salts there will be no uh leaking
oil cans and transmission fluids or
whatever I it's gonna be clean water
it's going to flow across sheet flow
from uh north to south one along long
Dimension this
charge lineally along to the vegetated
area which is just down from that pass
through the
vegetation that is um just prior to the
wetlands area basically will pass
through remediate vegetated brush and
grass that was our basically be our
me so I guess you know
um so I'm not sure you I'm trying to
figure out do we have a good regulation
or not that says to mitigate this extra
rut off and and you're telling me
there's no change in the peak
runoff um I guess it's not intuitively
obvious to me how we can put close to
10,000 square feet of impervious surface
down there and the regulation says if
you put more than two mitigate that
there's no peak and that was an old
gravel pit that that soaked in a lot of
water good and so I'm not sure how we
can say that we don't have a increase in
runoff when we put that much impervious
surface down there on the old Gravel
Pit this is something as a reviewer as a
town Town engineer reviewing Town Jor
Clans I've done this in um Along on on
the on the h River in Bolt
uh we've done it near the canand river
in Portland
it's you're basically the the fact that
you're so close to the you're
immediately adjacent to this large
watershed area you're going to discharge
immediately to the qu ship if we were
farther um even you know quarter of a
mile away now you have impact on
neighboring properties the flood impact
would would have be real to the property
downam we are immediately discharging
from this area Peak flow increased flow
that c off this site will be down in on
its way long before Peak flood from the
Uplands fromes down on long hot Riv so
the the mitigation for flood mitigation
or impact to increase that the runoff
does not occur it's it's something that
Peaks are far apart uh this peak is
going to be a
on the radar for the larger pits coming
through and this
is you know this is something I have um
I have at my office and also a lot of
people in my office have allowed to
happen in areas that are very close to a
large water sh are such as
Rivers
stre now do these other towns like
Bolton have a regulation similar to ours
about adding The Improv surface they
they do there is the mitigate thak flow
okay and this is um thak flow
essentially is mitigated because of
where you are in relation to the water
sh as you know again as I as a town
engineer doing this plan for the town um
I'm very comfortable in saying that this
will not be not
be
increased uh impact
due to having this because we are so
close to the watch okay so I'm going to
ask you to take the town engineer hat
off sure Planning and Zoning the um
engineer Consulting engineer hat on yes
and uh and so from uh you the consultant
to the Planning and Zoning your
recommendation is uh to do it uh just
the way you've got it laid out here yes
yes and um like I said done I had the
same exact situation in the Amud 44 in
Bolton the Dollar General dentist office
that was built there in the past five or
six years that was the first question
asked you have to worry about they did
um for all their parking areas we had
them provide water water
quality especially dentist office did
not require them to provide St
detention because they were iMed down uh
lower Bol into the into the water this
is I'm this being the same situation um
If This Were a private develop coming
into here and this listen this we right
up here we're putting
a a court that's not going take vehicles
and cars it's been clean water coming
off of there so I'm not worried about
the water quality per se of that I'm
also not gonna worry about because we
are so close to the very large uh
Watershed that is part of the Opera okay
so if we were to ask you to put a
sentence in the uh the plan that the
plan is what the planning zoning
commission Consulting engineer
recommends you'd feel comfortable doing
that I could do that yes
absolutely okay
y that I think uh that covers it right
now for me with respect to that
particular issue um any other commission
members have any questions or comments
on what we've just been
discussing okay now let's go through the
uh the updated drawings uh if you will
and you can just if you can highlight
the changes to the drawings as we go
through them I'd appreciate
that you CH do you want me to put them
up on the screen
um sure that's fine if uh well if Eric's
going to do the talking he'd probably
like to put him up himself so he can do
uh move his
cursor Eric what's your
pleasure all right I'll try to see
whether I can share
it I don't necessarily think I I mean I
actually think the town engineer would
be a lot better guy to review this since
I have not even reviewed this set of
plans okay happy to have Joe go through
it I'm sure yeah we can do that um
Joe I have a set called up do you want
me to share them or Joe do you want do
you have a set you can
share can see your C I'm on my yeah I
have to go to my work computer I'm on my
home computer I have them I have a hard
copy next to me here that I can ref to
okay ch
let me let me give it a
whirl and as you go I can I'm I have the
list in front of me here I can walk
through the
list can you see on the screen
um the drawings
I that's better keeps getting better
okay okay Christin can just maybe can
that zoom out like
a do you want me to start on page one or
do you want me start on page one we have
to uh sort of recreate we did last time
because we didn't have it recorded and I
was right from the beginning there how
does that look that looks great
okay probably
not these um OB this title sheet here um
this is now my stamp is set we
have left
corner in the upper right along with our
abbreviations and symbols that we
through existing
proposed through
project
that's site
location cover
sheet questions on that nope amp sign
next is the existing conditions plan um
this essentially is
the server that our LS has compiled this
does not
include property lines which we put
on sheets from here on out simply
because uh he did not prepare he did not
locate property line so I think this is
his official drawing so this is simply
this
survey
up
time okay now we're getting to the good
stuff now we're getting okay um again
there our site plan with revisions made
as last meeting going down through u j
going down through your comments here
I'll just start in um comment number one
road
setbacks we've shown the 50 yard front
yard
setbacks taken from right here Center
Line of Riverside Drive Right Here
showing there yeah around sidey setback
25 yard set off the side which
neighboring both Town property some
front front yard set backyards run
through where the proposed bilion is
and for
that uh number two is the lighting plan
and I'll let um those involved with that
discuss that a little further yeah um
number three plan should statement by
the license cating the plan is in
performance with all app regulations and
in the notes on
three of
eight note number nine that basically
this uh is in accordance with planning
zoning regulation which is incorporates
in the regulations do incorporate all
the s mod that there so that essenti
covers that and J I can add a note um
discussing deep flows and and of of the
situation where we are in relation to
the hop River how that
uh effects are run up okay and uh you it
didn't strike me at the time but I think
that July 15 2019 date is not the
current version and I think that could
be important because we changed the RS
to specifically allow higher lighting
levels in okay athletic fields so I
don't have top of my head what the what
the date is but we need to make sure we
Encompass the change it has okay the
lighting that was on the the website but
then we as Christine Dev I talked to
some other some other things we run into
different that new date provide me the
set I will up
okay we'll
confirm the
date okay on that Jed that the floodway
earthw work
calculations is right there okay yeah
and Joe could go over that right now so
we could that out appreciate that yeah
there's our um the area earthwork area
um is this essentially the Disturbed
area um a total cut and we did we've
taken this from the U the autopad
program at roughly 194 cubic yards where
uh going to be cuts and fills or filling
170 9 cubic yard 7788 cubic yards we're
at 14.8 cubic yards at net C we actually
have slightly slightly more storage in
the area um very small percentage as the
toal
project so it is we are not putting any
fill
in show now I noticed some of the
elevations over in the area of the
pickle ball court are different now than
they were on the
originals yes
um I dropped that down I dropped pickle
down by six inches just to be um because
we were we were close and I just dropped
it by six inches because we actually had
uh in the lower
sou east corner um there was actually
then turned out to be a little bit of
fill in there because the lifting
uh existing condo came back in a little
bit north so we just dropped it by six
inches um really made
fall
okay um so that was our issue with our
floodway
bill that we proved not adding any other
F that would not be desirable to have
any
additional so that that is number moved
on to number four that was number four
number five how does the planning Cor
the comments of the in the wet commiss
buiness
approval I guess Christine we talked
about that a little earlier I didn't
have that kind of handle last one know a
lot of that
was Outlet yeah so
um so Han gruner had recommended doing
this Clos Loop um on the silt fence with
the J Hooks the um Inland Wetlands
commission their conditions are of
approval were um having a
pre-construction meeting yep having
weekly meetings on
site
and um we also the town had also agreed
to remove some invasives from the
wetlands um but we need to actually
identify the invasives that are out
there primarily um Autumn Olive uh so
that will be done in the spring we can
either tag them you know or put a
marking on the on the ones that need to
get just so the area doesn't get cleared
um but there is just a large volume of
uh Autumn Olive there so those were the
three uh requests from Inland
Wetlands you know what I had seen on
other plans
was the a copy of the wetlands approval
was just included in the plan so you've
got all those condition spelled out and
that way uh that's one way to capture
those otherwise I would ask that we put
in the plan you know the three things
that you just mentioned Christine um
either either way would work
okay put the letter right on
the okay all right
okay
okay um plan should be signed this
number six PL sign the stamp by
professional engineer that has been done
as well as our
surveyor signed in
two uh with number seven was the signat
date line which is in the upper right
corner
for's chair
now can I ask to have that little box
put on every sheet because Jim always
makes me sign every sheet can do
that um you want I mean right through uh
cover sheet right on through yep okay he
gives me no slack whatsoever
um number number eight is um says as we
discussed the fact that plan does not
show the entire parcel as ver 2323 of
his
own um Jim comments indicated there is
up for the commission better approach go
on
commission may upon written request the
applicant wave the submission of
information set forth
I goad Christin sorry Joe if I could
just interject would um I did uh write
up a waiver um requesting a waiver for
this um based on the topography in the
in the parcel site um I didn't know
whether or not to upload it upload it to
permit link or if I needed to send it
directly to um to you Jed uh I would
think you would send it to Jim but I'll
let Jim answer this question then sure I
have it written I could send it to you
right now I I prepared it already I just
didn't know where to who to uh where to
up if I should upload it to permit link
or
not you can send it directly to me okay
um I guess I'm gonna ask you to read it
at some point later sure if the
commission takes action and needs to
needs to act on that waiver prior to
okay acting on the the actual
application do you have that letter in
front of you Christine I do you know
what I can I can open it right now sorry
about looking at my chicken scratch here
but
[Music]
um let's see here we
go I don't know what my screen is
looking like can you see that um not
we're still seeing the plan oh
interesting um I have it up on my screen
so I don't I guess I have to share it
separ it's very short and so I just just
read it yeah sure it says the Andover
veteran field committee requests a
waiver of Regulation
23.2 Point B1 for boundary survey of the
entire parcel this parcel is 15.13 Acres
with the development of this parcel
being approximately 1.06 Acres the
survey captures adequate area around the
proposed development of the site to get
a clear picture of the layout and
topography of the
land okay
um with with the exception of the size
of the lot I
think my my concern about the size of
the lot is that if you call it a one
acre lot with the coverage we may exceed
the
um amount of lot we can
cover I think last last month we talked
about it being you know the combined
with the the soccer fields and all that
so that we didn't have
to consider the amount of lot coverage
so so the soccer fields are a little
over four acres yep the parcel that the
majority of this work is being done on
is a little over 15 Acres so that total
almost 19 Acres Y and the amount of
impact to both of these Parcels amounts
just around one
acre um and I was just generous in
measuring so I if I if I could interject
Jed yeah that that was discussed that um
because the town owned the two lots it
was it would be considered one
lot or looked at as one lot I recall
that I just
uh as long as we're comfortable that by
putting that one point so some Acres of
disturbance were not exceeding the uh
the requirement of section 11.2 which I
forget how much of the lot we can cover
but uh I knew with the with the 15
Acres it wasn't a question and and maybe
you said that the number that jumped out
of my mind was one acre like this was a
One Acre Site we were talking about no
no that that's the uh that's the amount
of work including like all theing that
needs to be done but the actual parcel
itself um the larger parcel is 15 acres
and then theer field par parcel is four
acres and this total construction
project is in and around one long as
your your letter makes clear that we
don't have a uh a problem with the
amount of stuff we're covering okay so
very good uh you've entered your letter
into the record for the public sure yeah
you can send that over to Jim and okay I
do that
sure okay um handle number eight we can
number nine additional detail the place
gapes and Pavilion should be provided
picture of the plan equipment shed
building would be great more
particularly the plan should show base
materials dep and type installation of
the play gapes is typically driven by
Factory specification so note to that
effect would be appropriate note should
reference appr safety standard being
apped with the plan should provide
detail on the base materials
SL um so on the detail sheet uh we did
provide
a uh section for time slab as number
number eight here we've also said that
they're G to comply
with well that's that's an yeah that we
had Christina give me an expanded note
what exactly we're put okay number seven
we do say thatly with appical standards
of the consumer product safety
commission as that covers uh vast
majority of especially consumer product
saf very good documentation on uh
playgrounds
playscapes and then note number eight
yeah detail for woodchip coverage
five inch
slab and we've also
had
also okay
so move on number 10 several places on
the plans were were removed it's in
bold yeah was was a little confusing I
could see what you at aspect put arrows
meing to the exact
objects well Riser
sister the building now existing sh uh
clearly and then number 11 uh we have
the signs for the handicap parking
spaces um I didn't have any particular
design for signage
for uh the recreation area
itself sure that something that be
submitted
on individual as an individual package
hey Christine did you have anything to
add about sign yes sure um in speaking
with Jim hesy um earlier we had a
conversation with regards to the signs
that we were anticipating for the
project and our signs are more
directives such as um like a metal like
the same material as the highway signs
that have more like rules of play um you
know just just rules of play and
guidance to follow and uh Jim had said
that those types of signs they don't
need the verbiage for or um is not
included under the signage
regulations um those it's not like a
it's not going to there's no s uh large
signs proposed that are going to say
like Veterans Memorial Park we were just
going to have maybe a like a a rule of
pickle ball courts as far as you know
the sharing of the courts and being
respectful of others um and it would
probably be on a metal sign uh we've
tried to um discuss as a committee you
know what we wanted listed there or you
know potentially you know no dogs
allowed in fenced areas and and it's in
having this discussion with Jim he said
you know this isn't the type of sign
that is under that is being covered
under these regulations like just a
little there would be a
smaller uh you
know two foot by two foot metal sign or
three foot by 3 foot with you know
either staked in the ground with a metal
stake kind of like the handicap parking
type sign material um so that's where we
stand with our signage that's what we
were
anticipating I I did not uh I'm not
concerned about the verbiage on it I was
just interested in maybe if we could
nail down the number of signs and the
maximum size of of a sign I think uh we
do have something in our regulations
that discusses that and I just want to
be able to say yep whatever shows up
that's what we agreed to when we approve
the
plan so can it be um made similar to the
handicap parking sign because that's all
it would be it would just be a metal
sign on a post post um you know one
post you know you could uh you could put
the signs on you know I was envisioning
a sign being on the chain link fence or
something yeah or yeah if it could be
latched on with like metal Clips onto
the chainlink fence that would be
convenient as
well um want to walk out there someday
and find 50 signs out there and yeah and
said oh we didn't have to talk about
that when we were doing the plan so we
have this in this uh within the past
week we have collected some some
pictures of some signs that we thought
we could use and um the playground
committee was didn't really they had
taken pictures of some signs but they
hadn't envisioned like a potential Like
rules of play so there may only be one
sign at this point um on the pickle
balls because I courts because I do
think having um some type of structure
there will make it fair for anybody
that's going to walk on it to be able to
use the facility y
um okay just to be clear like to have
signs and the size of the sign so
somewhere in the plan where we talk
about it
okay Chris Christine this this is way
can I ask question on the signs is there
going to be a you know like a a sign
uh commemorating or
or commemorating the the property or the
the that section of
the of the uh the pickle ball courts you
know sort of like the Veterans Memorial
Field pickle ball court or something
like that or is it just or is just GNA
be informational signs um it's G to be
more of an informational sign
um I believe there is a sign um down the
other end of the soccer fields that says
Veterans roal Field so um is since we
are not able to replicate that budgetary
wise at this time we weren't going to
add anything um so all right understood
understood back to you that was my
number 11 that was the last of the
comments you did that was before to
me okay let's just run through the rest
of the drawings then uh quickly so we
can say that we recreated what we did
last time before we turned to9 yes go
ahead Jim um I have a question Joe um
through you if that's okay the cut and
fill
calculation can you can you tell me what
the um the earthwork area how you define
that uh was the Disturbed area um up to
okay so it's square yard okay the
cleared area yeah okay so it's just a
dimensional overlay of of that right you
took the whole thing yeah just Pros got
thank you
I think there are comments here that
um covered um sheet number three which
is V
F any commission members have comments
on page
three okay let's go to page
four uh here page four is our typical uh
rosion sent control notes and details um
the left half opposite first colum up
front
are seet of
construction then on down are our basic
our general guidelines which follow the
um sent Ro to guidelines uh set out by
the know construction equipment where
you refuel them we we kind of R already
in notes but as well but then again go
through our top solling our seed rates
um it's all there
very
standard
um standard uh kind of rules regul
hey in in a lot of the paragraphs there
you've got uh a section called
maintenance and who is going to be
responsible
for
that and that might be an Eric question
I think I know the
answer I would say the responsibility
would be the chair of the Planning and
Zoning commission for all maintenance no
that wasn't the that wasn't the answer I
was
expecting I was thinking might be Public
Works might be of that it will likely be
public works okay very good got
it any other questions on this page I
think it's page
four moving on to page five yep go ahead
Wayne
um now that we're eliminating
the uh pave parking area is there going
to be a a uh catch Basin no no there
won't I I do leave that in there the way
is so that we can if there are adjacent
basins existing basins um okay kind of a
belt suspended we need to wrap up put up
an inserted Basin so get to bre don't
anticipate
that gotcha
any questions on page
five page five is just general court
layout
with okay page
six page six this is uh site details
looking at under
drains cleanout detail the P the grid
Paving what we call Paving system but
it's a the grid system for the the
pathway com
outow
design the gravel pave
system you know it's then to be graveled
and eventually probably just grow into
the grass but it provides a strong space
for any small pickup trucks need to get
down there or if even a p of Emergency
Equipment need to get
down any questions on this page
okay let's go to the next
one page seven again uh additional
details more specific about the how the
fening is going to be
connected um post anchors where we see
our aluminum
signs Reserve
accessible accessible Park
spaces um and this is probably if you
want to add
Joe your voice fades in and out I don't
know if you're coming in proximity
to I usually have my uh my little boom
mic here I'm working off my uh
microphone on myera coming through loud
and clear now sometimes gets a little
hard to
hear any questions on this
page okay
and this is sheet eight um again this is
the note we did know we touched on this
before we've add the bicycle rack um
which is placed GNA be placed
immediately down from the handicap
parking place where the where the uh
walkway starts and you kind of get down
probably five or 10 feet turn to the the
right and that's all the uh decent flat
area there to place the the bike rack
yep here it
is sounds good and then the rest of that
is the uh deail for
the Pavilion and the uh proposed shed to
drop over top of the elal panel that's
there and of course we have talk before
the concrete slabs be under the filling
and the wood ship surfacing be under the
place
and that uh that is set of drwing
G okay very
good um any questions at all on the plan
with not not discussing the lighting
aspects at this
point yeah so far
uh we can go over the three changes that
Joe has to put on the
print Did you has anybody written them
down I
have the first one's change regulation
revision
date Wetlands approval on the print and
signs on the plan yeah got
that the revision date is on the front
page of the regulations which is of
right yeah February 11 2024
and then I also had uh we're going to
add a comment on uh
the method to prevent Peak runoff being
exceeded was that specified by the
Consulting
engineer yep and then we're going to put
pzc chair signature line on every
page right y okay that's what I
got and I think it
uh goes without we didn't talk about it
on page three but we still uh need the
variance from the zoning board of
appeals to uh allow the the setback
difference or the
setback right Pavilion yep need a 35
foot setback as opposed to uh the 50
Foot
okay
um do you have something
Wayne I I'm sorry I I could have swore I
saw somewhere in these revised plans
where it's stated by T minutes Concrete
in the parking area it was
after after this
page oh it was in it was in some of the
the
detail I think that's for the handicap
parking just for the handicap parking
okay yeah you left that in there just
that square because we have to have for
Ada we have to have a Serv all right all
right
okay is there is there somebody that
would like to run us through the
lighting
plan stop
sharing and if the answer is no
I'm okay with that I know that came out
late I did not get a uh a big chance to
look through
it
um did you want me to share the lighting
plan I don't know if
you yeah so if you share the lighting
plan and just go to the third page of
the the PV layout okay hold give me one
give me one second
here um
have that one ready hold on I'll get it
in a sec
okay and then can you scroll down to the
third uh page of
that okay
so this this shows the revised
photometric
diagram um and we can also talk about
what the uh absolute numbers are
so this uh indicates that there's one
two three four five six seven lights
directly on the pickle ball
courts um although it's depicted with
four pickle ball courts there's actually
three but this was just illustrative of
what that last open spot would be um in
the on the pickle ball
courts so if you look at the details for
that uh it is
basically um the area on the pickle ball
courts is the average is just over 30
foot
candles um the maximum is 37 and the
minimum minimum is 26 so the men to Max
ratio is 144 which is more than
appropriate for a uh a high school Level
Playing uh type designation for pickle
ball
court um Eric as I look through you know
the center line of the the courts there
I see these levels of uh you like 40.7
am I missing something there I see a
bunch of 40s no that doesn't match up to
their verbage for
it
yep
um yep don't know why that doesn't match
your calculation summary
yeah yeah if you if you if you took if
there if they're saying it's an average
and if if you averaged everything down
the center line it probably would be
less than
40 no I I got that Eric just read off a
number that uh on the little chart there
that had the maximum level and yeah
37 yep um yeah I'm just reading off
their actual calculation summary sheet
okay in some form or
other um
so but the light levels are reduced
pretty
significantly uh basically all they do
is they only apparently have one
intensity of LED so all they're doing is
just slapping an artificial diffuser
over the LED to block a significant
fraction of the light um that seems to
be how they uh get the intensities that
they get um I don't have any fixture
details of this
um I assume at some point they will give
us fixture details but I don't have them
um aside from that the on the left of
your screen the walkway to the parking
area the lighting was eliminated from
there completely because you know given
the cost of this um it's not cost
effective to light both sides uh of the
walkway in the dark you can use the
other
walkway um and the fixtures for the
parking lots there was one additional
fixture added and the two on the ends
were moved up because that gives more
even light levels on the
walkway so those are the changes that
based on uh what the lighting designer
said he needed to do get to get down to
a Min to Max ratio of no greater than
four in the parking lot and in the
walkway which they believe they've
accomplished so that is in a nutshell
what the the lighting ISO diagram
is and and there's no requirement that
we light the
walkway yeah I know there's not even a
requirement that we have a walkway there
well that's my point TR light it we're
just G to remove it the walkway what
that if you're going to make us light it
we're just going to remove the
walkway okay well um again I didn't get
a chance to review the plan for very
long before coming in here and uh I
hadn't caught the fact that we took the
lighting off the walkway over there so I
guess I can check that at some point
here Eric just a question are they using
like a Ballard style light for that or
are they going to have a full pole light
coming down the walk
uh no they're pull lights
okay I guess the other question that
that I asked and I was not surprised by
the light levels on here I was surprised
by the fact that we chose to use a high
school standard instead of a recreation
standard and I thought you know in uh I
think I discussed with Wayne We both did
independent research before the last
meeting and I would have uh thought that
a recreation field by both standards was
at 30 foot
candles and I've seen we have to go up
to a high school standard now and I
guess the the thing I was looking at it
only had two categories professional and
recreational when uh we went there but I
was expecting the number to be 30
but I didn't expect uh high
school because it's not a high school
field it's a recreation
field well so so part of the answer to
that is it depends what standard you're
using because our regulations give us
some variability in what standard to
use we chose to use the IES Sports
lighting standard um and IES sport
lighting uniformity ratio that lists
three Alternatives training slre high
school and Collegiate and as we
discussed at the last meeting the last
set of lighting uh guidelines were
basically
uh you know at or just slightly above
the Collegiate level of play and we
agreed to use the middle standard which
was the high school level of
play um and yes we do exceed that on
average by one foot
candle but you can't just increment down
I mean a fixture is a
fixture you know you don't have an
infinite ability to vary the fixture
intensity so the lighting designer
figured this was the best they could do
if you you're not find that acceptable
then deny
it um if I could just add Jed I part of
uh the grant that was given named Pickle
Ball courts as a resource um in the the
grant availability and uh in our
research in in and around the pickle
ball um Corridor they are anticipating
it to become an Intercollegiate sport
within the next 10 years it is just
blossomed I think that's why they're
offering it as part of the grant so I
think metering it down to something like
training and wreck would maybe prohibit
being able to use it at at a high school
level if that came to the came to be um
we would be behind almost like this the
school is not having lighted lit
football fields you know like there's a
I I feel like if we set the bar low then
we lose opportunity to be able to
utilize our resources in the future
Okay I uh understand I just did not
recall from the last month's
meeting that we that there was a
discussion on three levels of lighting I
thought there was only a discussion on
two recreational and professional and
uh and that could be my mistake because
I say we didn't have a recorded so
I wasn't able to review that uh here but
uh I understand what you're saying you
know we don't have a high school don't
know that we would be playing High
School pickle ball here but uh I do uh
recognize that the sport is blossoming
so
um note
it okay um anything else on the lighting
Plan
Eric I do
not okay and uh I did think there was a
fairly decent write up in the uh in the
plan about controlling the lights
um and so I thought that
was well written I guess when we
discussed the application we can discuss
whether you know the the number is the
right number or not but uh certainly we
hit a lot of the things that way any any
other commission members have uh
questions on the lighting plan is
presented okay very good
um Christine or Joe was there anything
else you wanted to present to the
commission at this
point I think we've um cover I need
cover through our plans I can't think
anything else
I I think we've covered everything okay
very good Jim you want to give us your
take on the application in in the
plans I'll I'll stop sharing here we
go so the the revised plans have
addressed my
concerns as far as the signage goes my
conversation with Christine I recall
that they had they were working on the
particulars and because it was a
commission a committee um they hadn't
exactly decided on on Final signage so I
thought perhaps just a reference to the
the town's regulations might might
suffice um I mean
there's they're not looking clearly
they're not looking to put a large sign
in there um and I have to identify
exactly
what what
sign what definition they would fall
under so um I just kind put it off at
that point in time um that's about all I
have as far as I really didn't have a
chance to review the the most recent
lighting plan I did I did read The
Narrative of and I thought that looked
good um but as far as the the numbers I
didn't really have a chance to go over
them okay um good
enough
any Wayne you have any uh questions your
comments at this
point oh I think uh I think I'm good
I I have not seen the lighting plan at
all so I I can't comment on
that and uh of course the big nut to uh
to crack here is how to handle the
Pavilion and the
setback okay understand yep any uh any
of the uh commission members have any
other questions or
comments I'm sorry I I failed to mention
that the the committee has has put in an
application to the zba for
variants for the a reduction in this the
setback
requirement and they I did um have a
well communicated with the chair of the
the Zoning Board of appeals who
indicated they'd be happy to meet before
being the commission zoning board of
appeals would happy to meet prior to the
March meeting but it could not be pulled
off in time for tonight's
meeting okay got
it um didn't hear any comments from the
commission members uh John you have any
uh comments on the
application not at this time I thought
it was a comprehensive presentation uh
exhaused okay
um are there any
members of the public here that would
like to comment uh again at this
point and we did get uh we did get the
public comments recorded from the last
session so that's part of the public
record I just didn't know I see I think
most of the uh attendees are part of the
uh committee that that work to put
together the plan
um Shannon VA you got any comments that
you want to make at this
point yep you absolutely should approve
of the project thanks for asking okay
you're welcome I second what Shannon
says we are eager to get this done for
our town hopefully we'll get approval
from you tonight thank you for your time
Brandy you have any uh comments or
questions um just that you know we're
very excited about this project I know
the town has been looking into doing
something like this for a very long time
and I think it'll be great for the
community it'll you know people have
something fun to do in Andover you know
not have to travel to another town to do
some sports and activities so thank you
okay Katherine Hutchinson any comments
not at this time thank you okay is there
anybody that I missed going through uh
there okay so I guess that uh that
completes the discussion for
tonight um the
question becomes oh I know what I wanted
to do and uh John if you could help me
out and if you would call up
the Planning and Zoning website and I
would like to just note for the record
all the things that are currently in our
file there I don't want to read through
them all but I'd like to
uh make sure each of those are included
in the
record all right Jed I'm I'll I'll share
I'm gonna need your help navigating okay
so if you click on the uh on the left
hand side the application submitted or
pending and then so there
are there are the uh documents in our
file and I consider each of those part
of the uh public record that we will
look at when we get get to the point
of
um deliberating okay okay and does
anybody any of the commission members
have any questions on what is in the
record there or want to have any
discussion on that before we move on to
the next
part Jen this is Jim I just want to add
that there are a couple of documents
that have been submitted subsequent to
or at the end of the day that are not on
this list correct but I believe are
considered as part of the public record
the lighting revision for instance and I
believe the the most current revised
plan understand and we'll get those
posted there uh we went through the
lighting plan in a little detail tonight
um I know uh in permanent link there was
uh a set of plans sent out today
that I think you know had very minor
changes from what was put in there on
211 that we've got to get put in and I
would like to get Christine's letter
asking for a waiver on uh right you
would like that put into permit link as
well no send it to Jim GNA send it
to okay I'll send it to you
tonight okay you can stop sharing your
screen there John that that does what I
wanted to uh cover on
that okay hang
on I don't know if I
can my my computer has been very
uncooperative this evening
um
see okay well while you're working on
that so the next order of business is do
we continue the public hearing to uh our
next meeting or do we close the public
hearing tonight because we've got
everything in there that we would like
to
see
and I will acknowledge the fact that uh
we we had a very thorough
brief a lot of the uh the um
comments were uh I think most of the
comments that uh we had outstanding from
last meeting were resolved the uh the
the things I'm a little bit
uncomfortable
with um in the lighting plan is lighting
plan we can we can find out uh
I I have not had a chance to do a
thorough review of the lighting plan
there were a couple of things that that
I would like to take a look at there and
I think as far as precedence goes I I
know is we've
uh gone down this path you
know I would think our precedence has
always been that if you want a waiver
from the zon board of appeals you know
that should be complete
before we get
before we close out the public hearing
so that can be in there and not have
that listed as a condition of
approval
um and
those those were the two things that
that concerned me about closing out the
public hearing tonight um if we were to
have a question on the lighting plan you
know is as I learned from the Dollar
General once the the public hearing is
closed it's closed and uh you're not
allowed to ask any more questions and uh
and I know that's not the answer that uh
Christine was hoping for um and and I do
recognize that there's been an awful lot
of very good work put into this
um but that's kind of where where I'm at
uh I'm interested in thoughts from other
commission members at this
point well what about the lighting plan
you don't like J is there a difference
between
um Collegiate and high school what's the
difference in in foot
candle well the difference
so if we were to choose to use the
pickle ball
guidelines which is one of the two
choices authorized in our
regulations I know it says the
average illumination you know whether
it's foot candles lurs I don't remember
the unit they used was
30 and
so that would avoid that would avoid the
issue of having should it be high school
or a recreation field if we just use the
other standard and would get you the
number you want the uh it caught me by
surprise
and and it probably shouldn't
that we're taking lighting away from a
sidewalk I understand that you know an
acceptable answer is well we just
eliminate the sidewalk well you know I I
think the sidewalks kind of nice
I the fact is that I haven't been able
to uh to spend the time thinking about
it making sure that that I'm comfortable
with it I might be be happy with
everything there I I just don't know yet
um you know I I stumbled across this at
5:00 this
afternoon and uh and I know Jim didn't
get a chance to uh well he said he read
the verbiage uh you know and then when
when I looked at
the the illumination values
on the field and they were higher than
the max specified in the
chart um
yeah it just probably
warrants warrants a closer look and I'm
not sure that that I need to change
anything I just haven't done my homework
to uh to say that I'm good and that as
soon as we say the public hearing's
closed I won't have another question and
then I won't be able to get it answer
already already learned that lesson not
to be in a hurry to close the public
hearing especially when we're meeting
one week after the zba you know and and
I kind of think that you you've got a
good case for a hardship there and going
to be approved so I I don't know that
sending that
along is that big uh an inconvenience
right now the average is 30 isn't
it fo candles yeah it so and and again
I'll have to go back and look at at the
the wording um and that's what the PPA
is recommending
also I don't recall whether it says
won't exceed 30 you know and again we're
very close um I just haven't didn't get
the chance to go through and study any
of that detail you know makes sense it
could be it could be absolutely okay and
I hope that it is you know um
I just feel I have an obligation to uh
to do my job as a chair the the
commission and and look through the new
plan that came out this afternoon right
you yeah because I didn't look at my
email for a couple hours um didn't
stumble on it until you're getting ready
for the meeting here but I have a
question too though about lighting we're
talking about the 30 foot candles
40 I guess I'm not educated enough on
this I don't have any idea what kind of
light that looks like
and do they make the light fixtures in
these quanti these levels do they have
one that's 30 or is it 33 or 34 how are
we going to go at meeting those
requirements when you go out to purchase
the
light I think you know Eric discussed
they put diffusers on there to reduce
the uh the intensity of the light but
essentially the light bulb's the light
bulb it's just a question of how much
you diffuse it to uh to reduce the level
in in I don't know if they've got you
know how many I know they don't have an
infinite supply of diffusers they
probably got a given number and and they
put the one that gives us the best plan
to uh to meet the levels on the field
that we're trying to get to and and this
is the this this is this is clearly the
best in plan I have ever
seen but I haven't had a chance to look
at
it you know the good news is it's the
best lighting plan I've ever seen the
bad news is could take a little bit of
time to look through it and see that it
all makes sense and I think it probably
will you know but I haven't done that
yet
so if
uh if the world world isn't going to
come to an end for some
reason I would like to hold the public
hearing open to the following meeting
and I would expect that we would be able
to close it at that meeting and we would
have the variant from zba we know
exactly where we're at and all that kind
of stuff okay any commission members
have uh heartburn with taken that
approach that was good and I know I'm
probably more more cautious
and try to be more deliberate
uh than maybe some people would be but
that's who I am and and I can't change
that so that's
uh that's what I would like to do then I
would like to continue the public
hearing to the next meeting all the
other things if we can get them
corrected that we went through on that
list that everybody has if they're
corrected by the next meeting that will
prevent them from being a condition of
approval otherwise uh I'm very
comfortable putting those in is a
condition of approval at the at when we
do our deliberation and when we do our
deliberation I think there's probably
there might be some other conditions of
approval we put in there but but those I
would feel comfortable with at this
point
so J can I just point out that we would
need the commission would need a request
for
extension um I believe they do at this
point well yeah this is this is not the
commission's own application is it it is
not the commission's application right
yeah so you you'll need a just a yeah an
authorization to extend Jim I did write
one of those up today as well in case
they were needed I did already email you
the the request for the waiver um
uh I can send that to you as well would
that is that who I should send it to yes
okay I'll do that right now if we've got
that from you Christine you know I'll
send it right now okay appreciate you
want me to read
it yes okay let's see here let me close
over veteran committee requests an
extension to the public car and special
permit for Andover Recreational facility
enhancements phase two the lighting plan
was submitted today and we are awaiting
proceedings for a variance through zba
for the installation of a Pavilion in
the setback area
so did you have a number of days in
there that yeah do I need I need to
include how many days if you could say
35 days okay that would be good I don't
know the exact number between the 18th
today
and okay oh March 18th so yeah 30 days
would uh 30 days does it uh put 35 then
I don't have to worry
about whatever
y thank you Christine yep I I'll forward
that over to you to Jim right
now so I I heard a couple of comments
that uh we've been working on trying to
get this field Improvement thing done
for 20
years I think we're pretty close one
more month uh out of 20 years isn't
going to be the end of the world so
thank you for all the good work um thank
you for coming and I look forward to uh
wrapping this up
at our next
meeting thank you J okay so the uh the
public hearing will be continued at our
meeting on March
18th and
uh the public hearing for
tonight is adjourned I'm going to take a
three minute break before we call to
order the regular
meeting and I think you all know why I
got to do
that thank you
hey Eric are you
there yep I'm there can I can I um ask a
quick favor of you while we're in recess
sure can I make you the host for a
second and try to restart my computer
because it's not fully
cooperating uh sure I think all you have
to do is you know not have your computer
explode in the next couple of minutes I
think I can probably do that all
right I am the host good luck I'll I'll
be right
back e
okay it's 8:28 and I'd like to call the
regular meeting of the Planning and
Zoning commission to
order next up on business is roll call
and seating of alternates lean
Hutchinson do we have voice
Communications with you now
yes okay thank you so uh for roll call
and seating of
alternates all commission members are
present I see Ann Marie and Kevin also
present Susan England is not present
tonight so no alternates will be
seated next up is addition or changes to
the
agenda does anybody have any proposed
additions or changes to the
agenda and I'm GNA have one and so I'd
like to make a motion
to to add to the agenda the approval of
the meeting minutes from January 21st
meeting is item
10 looking for a
second I'll second that thank you Ann
uh any
discussion and Jed just so you know the
town planner uh attempted was attempting
to reboot his computer so he turned the
host over to me temporarily hopefully
he's going to succeed in that role and
take it back
okay are we still recording we are still
recording
okay because normally I see a little
thing on my screen that says recording
and I don't see see it tonight
but oh yeah I see it
okay yep just didn't want to have to go
through uh go through that again okay
and John is back on now so um and Jed
yep Patrick um we're not going to be
doing a PowerPoint presentation tonight
I don't know if that was on the agenda
per se but well I'll just be saying a
few things before uh later on so do I
have to change the agenda or no you do
not nope whatever you say is good to go
okay great has a PowerPoint fine if it
doesn't that's fine too so thanks um so
the the motion is to approve the minutes
to add approval of minutes from January
21st is item 10 it's been seconded
um I'll call for a vote an i Scott hi
Leanne hi Patrick I and I vote I as well
that motion passes five z
z next up is public speak anybody uh
from the public want toh talk
about anything uh other than the pickle
ball courts
tonight um I have a public speak go
ahead Patrick um for uh the March 22nd
Planning and Zoning classes uh there's
the community center room's been
reserved for uh anybody who wants to do
the the online class
there okay great okay so I'll be there
for
sure thank you Patrick anybody
else hearing none we'll move on to new
business which
uh talks about proposed amendments to
the zoning regulations then at the last
meeting one of the options that we were
talking about is out of that section
11.2 of our meeting should we consider
this an open space subdivision to give
us reduced
setbacks we chose not to go that route
which I think uh was the correct answer
but when we did
that I noticed in our regulations it
talks about the open space lot setback
is 20
Feet Andover Lake open space setback is
20 feet and the business adjacent to the
Ard is listed as 10
feet and when you define a setback is a
distance from the center line of the
road which is about 13 feet
that would mean for an open space
subdivision we'd be able to build a
house or a building 7 feet away from the
road and I don't think that's what was
intended I think uh probably the intent
of that was put it 20 feet from the road
in a business 10 feet from the road so
the next time that I have a a proposal
to update the regulations I'm going to
add those in there to move those back
just a little bit more than they are so
that they're not right on top of the
road because I don't think anybody in
Handover wants the building's that close
to the
road that's that's my take on that and
that was all that I wanted to talk about
with the proposed amendments to the
zoning
regulations I'm going to move down to
item six old
business and that's the various uh
improvements to the recreation field and
that's on hold we'll discuss that at the
next
meeting next up
is I wanted to talk for just a minute
about the gravel
pit and I will make a motion that the
commission enter executive session to
discuss pending litigation concerning
the Gravel Pit All commission members
Town manager prospective zoning agent
and town planner are invited to attend
for those people that
that are still here that are not on that
list I don't expect that uh executive
session to last more than about five or
10 minutes more than five minutes I
guess um so you don't need to run away
that just gives you a break to go get a
glass of water or something but I move
that we go to Executive session with
those
folks looking for a second Leanne was
you seconding yes
okay very good um any discussion on the
motion hearing none I'll call for a vote
in here okay I okay yeah Scott
I Liam
I Patrick I can I vote I as well
um John if you can do your magic and get
into executive session there so the I'm
sorry just to confirm the people that
are not being brought over are a deel
Bata Kevin arners and K uh cathern
Hutchinson um an Marie dagel is okay I'm
sorry
yet okay so
b b
thank you Catherine I'll get it right
one of these days 90% better than the
first time I tried
it and is Kevin coming
over yes yes y all right hang on so just
the two people back coming
okay people are
[Music]
exiting all right we'll be
back thank you for stopping
it at the appropriate point there um
next item up is planet conservation and
development
Patrick
Patrick anybody hearing me
Patrick oh he was uh out of audio okay
there we go Patrick can us yes now I can
hear you okay very
good you're
up oh I'm up
yep all right so um we had a great
meeting with uh with John and um and I I
was actually reviewing the 2015 plan of
conservation especially the de
development part um a lot of the ideas
that we've been bouncing around in need
DC are definitely where we want to go in
the future and tomorrow night's meeting
we're going to finalize our presentation
for the planning and zoning and our
final
recommendations um
also um hopefully we'll have a
PowerPoint presentation so it's nice and
orderly um but we um we talked a lot
about potential development and
restaurants and stuff that businesses
that um a lot of people in town want to
see um let me pull up my presentation I
just want to mention one
thing the reason that we're going to
make some more recommendations is
because please
hold there it
is we noticed that when H smaller
businesses start to
outgrow their their you know a lot of
homebased businesses and smaller
business in town they end up leaving
Andover and move their business and we
lose that tax money so that's one of the
driving forces for us to really start
focusing on development in our town so
that there's a spot for them to go you
you think we're looking at something you
think you're sharing your screen I don't
I'm just I'm just looking out my not I
just wanted to make sure we were getting
what we were supposed to be getting yeah
this is just a it's a quick rundown um a
lot of the the stuff that was talked
about in the 2015 plan of conservation
development we've started in the right
direction in a couple areas um like we
we we have a sign in town we did the the
farmers market to help bring
uh and over some notoriety um and out
now obviously the uh pickle ball court
is going to be drawing people to town
but we want to be really clear on what
we want to add to this but basically a
lot of it is implementing stuff that was
never implemented on the last plan of
development so tomorrow night's meeting
we'll be finalizing what we're going to
present to the planning of
zoning okay super now is uh as an aside
there
you John Eric Jim Wayne and
I and Roberta have been working a little
bit on you know the the town zoning map
and there were there were some errors in
there that were
correcting great but there we've had
some discussions about what should this
property be
zoned be residential Business Industrial
or
whatever and so I'm hoping as part of
your recommendations going forward what
I'd like to you know what I'd like to do
um with with the Conservation Commission
is we sit down together and say these
are the properties that we think should
be developed business-wise these
industrial these we don't
want to be developed we want to find a
way to conserve those right and and just
kind of go through and make sure that we
have the zoning the way we want it and
so that we can Target those
properties to uh to put in the
businesses that you guys want to uh to
help bring to the town excellent so that
would be
that and and that will take probably a
couple of uh extra meetings to have that
discussion but I think you know when
uh when Eric's asking
me where do you think it should be zoned
and I say well I think you know I'd like
to hear from the Conservation Commission
in the EDC before we make those
decisions and
uh and that will help us get the right
answers in there so sounds great that'll
be that'll be hopefully part of it and
uh that will make our plan hopefully a
little bit better yeah and uh because I
I did notice that there were some areas
that were were marked uh we we had two
different ideas for Village node there
was there's like conflicting ideas in
the last plan of uh well the development
part of it so it's it's really GNA we're
going to have to really finalize what we
are really envisioning so but I did
think there was a lot of good stuff in
the old one that yeah definitely no room
to do and uh we just need to tweak it a
little bit make sure we're back on
course heading in the direction we all
want to go so yes yes look forward to
that discussion at our next meeting
great any uh anybody else have questions
for Patrick while we're on this
topic
okay we move on
the proposed telecommunication Tower at
7:46 East
Street um I did not attend the public
hearing that was reportedly held I uh I
know there were a couple of people from
the Conservation Commission that were
going to try I sent them what I thought
was the most latest and greatest date
and time and login information and and
they told me they w weren't able to uh
to get in to see it
um and I I never successfully figured
out why it was that uh that I didn't get
a copy of the thing last July you know
it it was sent out by their
attorney um not registered receipt or
anything it was he had some kind of uh
proof of delivery to the post office so
he had something from the post office
saying yes you mailed it but but uh
never never heard back uh you know on
any evidence that it showed up here the
uh I also reached out a friend of mine's
the chairman of Inland Wetlands over in
uh Hebron and asked him if he got
anything back July last July and he said
nope December was the first he heard of
it so I don't know what the issue is
there but
uh that didn't go exactly right but I
will certainly pay more attention to
cell towers in the future not that we
have an awful lot of say in
it and that's all I have
on
the Telecommunications Tower unless
there's any questions for
me
okay GNA move on down
to some more new business
business and the first up is the
application the action appointment of
the new zoning
agent
and Leanne was the person I think that
mentioned at one of the first meetings
Wayne showed up that the planning zoning
commission needed to vote on
Wayne and that caught me a little off
guard at the time and I said well
Wayne's not taking over right off the
bat he's been a he's in the learning
process for a
while and it gave me a chance to go do
my
homework and I found two
things in our bylaws that says
appointments of staff and Consultants
shall be made by a majority of vote of
the entire membership unless otherwise
provided for so that's one of the things
we're voting we're voting to kind of
retro proactively hire Wayne because
he's
here the other thing that when I was
talking to Leanne about that making sure
I didn't miss anything she said it used
to be something about that in the
charter I think we took it
out but I did go back and look in our
current
Charter and the charter says the zoning
enforcement officer the board of
selectman shall by a majority vote of
the entire board appoint by a four F
vote of the entire board to enable to
remove the zoning officer providing
either action been secured or the advice
of consent to the majority of members of
the planning zoning commission and a
meeting warrant and held for such
purpose I thought that was going to talk
about bringing him on as his Zing
enforcement officer I see that not in
there now so I guess the the charter
only only requires this big vote of our
planning uh Our advice and consent if we
wanted to get rid of zoning enforcement
officer and that is not the case so
our I do think that uh we we're allowed
to have more than one zoning enforcement
officer I think the time is coming very
close to where Wayne is gonna be feeling
that he is ready to take the lead on
that effort
I got some things that kind of hoping
that Jim can get wrapped up before he uh
before he draws his last paycheck for
the town but I'll make a motion that we
approve hiring Wayne is our zoning
enforcement officer a second that thank
you Scott any
discussion um uh Jed yep I hate to be a
stickler um your the wording you used
was hire Wayne I think what you probably
want to say is appoint Wayne for
okay I'll amend my
uh I'll amend my motion to appoint Wayne
is the zoning enforcement
officer and I'll second that again okay
thank you Scott any other
discussion hearing n I'll call for a
vote an hi Scott hi
Leanne
hi Patrick hi and I vote
I as well
um now let me
uh and that's all we need no Dad
yep um this is lean can I just this is
not for us to do anything about now but
as as you mentioned um you had asked me
if I had any other thoughts based on
things we've talked about in the past
and I see the way this is worded it does
refer as you just said to removing a
zoning enforcement officer and I'll just
repeat my
opinion um from apparently the language
has been removed which I told you I
wasn't in favor of at the time for
actually hiring a zoning enforcement
officer
without the advice and consent of the
Planning and Zoning
commission and the reason for that was I
was there when this language was put in
the charter and at the time honestly it
was a personality conflict um between
the first selectman and the person who
was chairman of the Planning and Zoning
commission at the time about the board
of Selectmen hiring somebody that the
commission actually didn't care for but
was sort of have given to them without
advice and consent anyway so that was my
original opinion um that I brought up to
you um when you asked me about it and
theoretically that could happen so
that's what I meant when I said I didn't
um agree with that that this is the
hiring now not the not the removal right
that it talks about in section
72h yep
now now uh yeah we we don't uh we don't
provide uh input uh to the board of
Selectmen and I'm not
sure what if anything they do for
bringing it on I know after we had done
the interviews uh the everybody got
briefed I know Scott pan and I both sat
in on the
interviews um so we did that uh but the
uh so that's where we are that's what
the way the charter is now I uh I'm not
done voting though yet I reading the
bylaws and it says made by a majority of
voted the entire membership so Kevin I'm
asking for your
vote sorry I had something in my throat
I vot ey as well okay amarie
is Amber still with us i' looking
uh no I don't see her
anymore okay so we
got
six
yeses and that's the majority of the
entire membership which is eight
so Wayne you're
official all
right sorry Jed I didn't I'm a sorry J I
didn't mean to um bring that up before
the voting was done I'm just so used to
hearing you know all the commission
members the full commission members
being pulled I didn't mean to interrupt
you before Kevin and an Marie if she
were
here that was my fault I uh I stopped
after I got through my list of uh PCC
members here and then I remembered that
the bylaws required full membership so
but we're we've got uh six uh six
members voting yes Susan England not
present and it appears that Amry dagel
is no longer present as well so they uh
they didn't vote but we have a majority
the entire membership so that takes care
of
that thank you I I appreciate the uh
appreciate the
confidence um I would point out section
21.1 says the commission shall designate
a zoning enforcement officer or
officers okay yep very good
um next next item up is uh sexual
harassment training for Commissioners
and
uh I think I've have heard from
everybody but Patrick and in hand on uh
thinking they've done something to
uh put the tick in the Box for sexual
harassment
training an have you uh done it or
submitted something to I I haven't been
able to find my certificate so I guess
I'll do it again okay it'll be good for
10 years once you do so that uh how
about you Patrick I'll be supplying my
certificate from work okay very good yep
and uh that should uh that should be all
that it takes but uh except
me say again
Wayne I that just reminds me I have to
sign up for it too okay yeah I wasn't
gonna thump you uh here tonight I was
just trying to make sure that we got the
commission members taken care I I can't
get out my records for my previous
employment so
um moving on next up is
correspondence and I think I sent out to
everybody an
email on a work live ride
brief and there's a person
from desegregate connecticut. org who
was looking to brief us on work live
ride that helps local commissions create
special Transit oriented Community
districts around their bus or rail
station by prioritizing State funding
for infrastructure and technical
assistance to the office of responsible
growth she was looking to come in and
give us a little
presentation I uh my thought was we we
don't have an awful lot of Transit
infrastructure here we've got you know
the bus that stop by the parking ride a
couple of times not not a lot of area
toh put residential development around
that so I was going to pass on getting
that brief plus I think John is very
knowledgeable in all the aspects of that
and uh he's probably got us covered his
thought was we probably
wouldn't I'll let John you know provide
whatever you want to say h d
John yeah no I mean I I think it's a
fine offer of sort of information but
this is just one of dozens and dozens
and dozens of um sort of affordable
housing Transit oriented development
type bills that are proposed um I think
this is their sort of you know
outreaching PR campaign um they've
already had their hearing at the
legislature so now it's essentially in
committee um and again yeah as you said
Jed this this bill um wouldn't really
affect endover at all
um because we don't really have the
infrastructure nor do we really have
true Transit um that would benefit from
this proposal um it's useful for Metro
North towns it's useful for even busway
towns um but not so much for Andover and
and frankly I I don't think it's
necessarily worth our time I shared um I
did submit testimony on behalf of the
Connecticut Planning Association uh
supporting it as as sort of to
legislation transitory to development um
but it's frankly not worth handovers
time to to worry about one one needle
and a Hast stack of legislation yeah
there's probably plenty of needles
that'll be coming at us before it's all
done but uh anyhow unless uh unless some
commission members uh feel strongly that
we uh we should be listening to that
brief I think our time's better spent
working on plan of conservation and
development okay hearing uh hear nothing
on that I guess we'll go to uh
administrative report zoning agent Jim
you got anything for
us U I've added a few
uh properties to The Matrix um number
eight Aspen all letter went out today on
some work that was done without a permit
I'm also trying to clean up a few loose
ends involving a one involving a
property at be swamp that sort of was is
being lived in without a benefit of a
certificate of occupancy um and I
will'll be getting a letter out to them
shortly and I finally was able to to
speak to Dennis
O'Brien um regarding initiating
of the fine finding mechan or utilizing
the finding mechanism for for zoning
enforcement for both Dollar Tree and
Benjamin Franklin and I hope to get
those letters out shortly next few
days and that about it okay but I'd be
happy to answer any questions yep
anybody got any questions for
Jim and I will point out that uh one of
the one of those uh things that I'm
hoping that Jim can clean up before we
send him on his merry way is uh the
remediation out at uh Pine Ridge Road
and uh you know Jim and I talked about
maybe going out there taking another
look at it uh my thought is I don't want
any more action taken until we have a
plan that uh Serenity is good with
because it would
involve um George going on to Serenity's
property to uh to execute the plan
George sometimes goes out and does
action and um do what he thinks is the
right answer um we have asked him for a
written plan I expect to get a written
plan Jim and I talked about uh the fact
that we ought to wait till the snow is
off the ground before we go out there
and look and given that the snow is all
very icy I think that's really a good
idea at this point so um hopefully the
snow will be gone before June so we can
send Jim on his merry
way uh Jed yep Wayne um just
to add uh in our efforts to clean up uh
clean up that map I submitted I talked
with
the the assessor and uh we identified 21
properties that are incorrectly zoned on
the property
cards and uh gave gave a list of those
properties to her to
um change as far as uh as far as how
they're listed in the on the property
cards okay were any of them the ones
that we were wrestling with what should
it be
zoned uh these are ones that we
identified as being incorrectly zoned
not
not nothing
uh nothing we were wrestling with okay
yep no I just hope that uh we don't
change it you know go through the uh
pleasure of having a public hearing and
change it and then change it
back after the group to the best of my
knowledge and and in my research uh
these are properties that should be
zoned one way and are incorrectly listed
on their property cards okay very good
thank you
Wayne
um any other comments for Jim or Wayne
okay the next up is in the wetlands
water course commission uh our meeting
this month was cancelled we had nothing
to discuss there and so I've got nothing
to
report next up is Town planner
John uh I think we've covered most of
what we were up to um I would just like
to note or reiterate that we did have
very productive meetings um with
economic development last week um and uh
hopefully we'll uh help collaborate on
their their PowerPoint for next time um
as well as a very productive meeting
with
conservation um and I would anticipate I
would hope that we will have a draft
conservation chapter for the pocd um
review available before the next PCC
meeting
excellent um which
uh probably should have asked it uh we
don't have our miscellaneous topic here
but uh but here it goes uh reading my
source for all information on town
planning stuff the River
East I saw last Friday that uh the
proposed
budget had the open space funding cut
from 50,000 to
$25,000 and uh I do see that it looks
like the the budget might be going up
Scott or an have anything to share that
uh
led to that uh you know is it worth
going back uh with the Conservation
Commission to try and make a pitch to
get that in or is the budget just uh so
big an increase this year that it's not
the right thing to
do well our side of the
budget is not that big of an increase
but it's the that that $50,000 is an
easy one to go after yep I suggested
they do they do it 51 year and 25 the
next
alternate instead of going 50 every year
or 25 every
year okay um maybe we'll do
that you know and I feel you know there
there's certainly going to be uh a time
where it's not the right thing to do to
put money in open space funding I want
to kind of delay that day as long as we
can so we can build that fund up so that
when uh when we absolutely can't we're
in as good shape as we can be but uh I
do understand the fiscal realities uh
that it looked like the school budget
was going to go up a bit this year and
it looked like they had some pretty
valid reasons for doing that and the
grand list is way down also this year
any any sense as to why that was is it
some of the rules that the state put on
uh cars how they tax them and Veteran
uh are getting tax reductions on their
homes and
properties okay GW I was reading in the
paper out we're gonna get all this extra
money from the state this year so
hopefully that comes to pass that's less
money
oh okay enough on that an you have
anything you want to add before we uh go
on to the next topic no not really it's
just okay I think that it's looking at
the um the school budget is going to
have to go up because of the increase in
the
students so they was something they
could cut out nope that was my take on
that uh from reading reading the River
East
um okay any uh anybody else have uh any
topic before we talk about the next
meeting um just uh yesterday in the
Hartford current there was an article
about um at the state level they're
putting more focus on climate change
when it comes to um drafting plans of
conservation and
development okay I think that's good and
I think you know we did have h a section
you know we haven't developed it yet but
when on those we envision statements uh
we did recognize the need to address
climate change and uh and so I think
we're consistent with that
Trend good hopefully we're leading that
Trend apparently anyway yeah
yeah Chad I I have one real quick thing
I'd like to interject and in and I think
it is pertinent to the Planning and
Zoning Commission because some of the
regulations in terms of storm water
management and other things that fall
under your fview um and that is I
attended the annual meeting of kerma um
which is our insurance company and they
brought in for one of the sessions a
climate scientist who
specializes in predicting essentially
storm events and we look they showed the
country as a whole and talked about what
was changing in what parts of the
country in the big takeaways in the
northeastern United States the extreme
precipitation event
God bless you excuse me are increasing
pretty significantly and he said today
compared to say 50 years ago the uh
amount of intense rainfall has gone up
by a factor four so the long and the
short of it is what that means is what
was traditionally thought of as a
500-year flood event um should be
thought of as something that has a
probability four times greater than that
and that that Trend holds through for
everything between roughly the 10year
storm event and the 500e storm event so
when we look at a 100e storm event you
can actually assume that's going to
happen about once every 25 years and if
it's a 10-year storm event you can
assume that's going to happen about
every two and a half years roughly so I
think that bears a lot of uh thought in
terms of what's allowed where and how
the town copes with with significant
rain
events that's it thank you anybody
else I'm gonna I can't remember if we
did public speak or not for the end I
know we did it the start Katherine you
have any comments at this point
no I don't thanks for
asking and I think you're the only one
that's hung in this far so next meeting
is gonna be on
March we gonna do the minute approval
oh that's what that scribble on there is
thank you
Ann
yes I got it
so I
will I will make a motion to approve the
minutes from the regular planning and
zoning committee and public hearing on
Tuesday January 21st
2025 I'll second that thank you an any
comments on the minutes
Chad I have one page four out of five
second paragraph after the bullets two
members expressed interest in joining
the Conservation Commission one of which
is part of Al I believe we just read
should be
whom I don't know why that that
warrant's changing but I just
called
just call my attention
so what okay so what is what is your
comment about the way that is worded now
that I found it it's one of
whom as opposed to one of which yeah oh
I'm just trying to I didn't know you
were an English major there Jim yes
grammar's
important okay there's H there's one
correction now anybody else have a
comment or correction
and I've got one under paragraph six on
that same
page where we uh motion to not go into
executive session we required to uh list
how people voted and as I recall
correctly Leanne and I voted to go to
Executive session an and Patrick voted
not to go to Executive session and I put
down Scott abstained because he said
maybe
and we need to have those results put
into the minute so people know how we're
voting and any other
comments so I amend my motion to approve
the minutes as amended by changing which
to whom and adding how we voted to
paragraph six on entering executive
session looking for your second again an
second any other
discussion hearing none I'll call for
vote an i Scott I Leanne I Patrick I and
I vote I as well uh the motion passes
500 Z and Ann again thank you for uh
keeping me honest and making sure we get
done all those things that we needed to
do um
I think we said next scheduled meetings
March
18th to be held as hybrid so weather
permitting we will
uh we will meet in person with the
hybrid
option if it gets if February continues
on like it is we may change that to zoom
only but at this point we're planning on
a hybrid meeting in
we'll have a chance to start getting
together
again so uh thank you all for uh
attending and participation tonight and
I make a motion that we adjourn at
9:27
second thank you Patrick call for a vote
an hi Scot hi
lean hi Patrick I I vote I as well
motions approved 500 Z thanks again
everybody good night and we'll see you